src/docs/feature_metadata.md, before:

# Feature metadata

A feature may have various kinds of metadata associated with it. These pieces of metadata are described by the `Metadata` data type.

## A metadata item

All metadata items will have the following fields in common:

| Field        | Type                        
|--------------|-----------------------------
| value        | string, number, or boolean 
| accession_id | string

`Metadata` items tend to fall into one of two categories: metadata derived from an external reference (XrefMetadata), and metadata derived from a value set (ValueSetMetadata).

An `XrefMetadata` item will have the following shape (cf. `ExternalReference`):

| Field          | Type        | Description |
|----------------|-------------|-------------|
| accession_id   | string      | item's identifier in an external database
| value          | string      | relevant information about the item
| url            | string      | url for accessing the item in another resource
| source         | ExternalDB  | see ExternalDB

A `ValueSetMetadata` item will have the following shape:

| Field          | Type                       | Description |
|----------------|----------------------------|-------------|
| accession_id   | string                     | item's identifier in a value sets glossary
| value          | string, number, or boolean | value intended for programmatic use by the consumer
| label          | string                     | a short, human-readable and display-friendly label
| definition     | string                     | succinct definition of the term
| description    | string or null             | optional longer description that can contain nuances

**Note**: apart from the fields listed in the table above, `ValueSetMetadata` items may also contain additional optional fields unique for each given kind of metadata. See `TranscriptManeMetadata` for an example.

Listed below are concrete realizations of different metadata items.

===

## Gene metadata

A `Gene` has the following metadata associated with it:

| Field          | Type                         |
|----------------|------------------------------|
| name           | GeneNameMetadata or null     |
| function       | GeneFunctionMetadata or null |
| biotype        | GeneBiotypeMetadata          |


### GeneNameMetadata
Gene name metadata is an instance of `XrefMetadata`. 


```json
{
  "name": {
    "accession_id": "...",
    "value": "...",
    "url": "...",
    "source": {
      "name": "...",
      "url": "...",
      "description": "..."
    }
  }
}
```

### GeneFunctionMetadata
Gene function metadata is an instance of `XrefMetadata`. The information about gene function is provided by Uniprot.

```json
{
  "function": {
    "accession_id": "...",
    "value": "...",
    "url": "...",
    "source": {
      "name" : "...",
      "url" : "...",
      "description" : "..."
    }
  }
}
```

### GeneBiotypeMetadata
Gene biotype metadata is an instance of `ValueSetMetadata`:

```json
{
  "biotype": {
    "accession_id": "biotype.gene_protein_coding",
    "value": "protein_coding",
    "label": "Protein coding",
    "definition": "Gene loci with at least one protein coding transcript.",
    "description": "???"
  }
}
```

===

## Transcript metadata

A `Transcript` has the following metadata associated with it:

| Field          | Type                                    | 
|----------------|-----------------------------------------|
| function       | TranscriptFunctionMetadata or null      |
| gencode_basic  | TranscriptGencodeBasicMetadata or null  |
| canonical      | TranscriptCanonicalMetadata             |
| mane           | TranscriptManeMetadata or null          |
| tsl            | TranscriptTSLMetadata                   |
| appris         | TranscriptApprisMetadata                |
| biotype        | TranscriptBiotypeMetadata               |

### TranscriptFunctionMetadata
Like gene function metadata, transcript function metadata is an instance of `XrefMetadata`. The information about gene function is provided by Uniprot.

```json
{
  "function": {
    "value": "...",
    "url": "...",
    "source": {
      "name" : "...",
      "url" : "...",
      "description" : "..."
    }
  }
}
```

### TranscriptBiotypeMetadata
Like gene biotype metadata, transcript biotype metadata is an instance of `ValueSetMetadata`. It will likely have a different definition from gene biotype metadata, necessitating a different accession_id.

```json
{
  "biotype": {
    "accession_id": "biotype.transcript_protein_coding",
    "value": "protein_coding",
    "label": "Protein coding",
    "definition": "An mRNA that can be translated into a protein.",
    "description": "???"
  }
}
```

### TranscriptGencodeBasicMetadata
Transcript gencode basic metadata is an instance of `ValueSetMetadata`:


```json
{
  "gencode_basic": {
    "accession_id": "gencode_basic.true",
    "value": true,
    "label": "GENCODE Basic",
    "definition": "Gene loci with at least one protein coding transcript.",
    "description": "???"
  }
}
```

Note: transcript gencode basic metadata is only applicable for human and mouse transcripts.

### TranscriptCanonicalMetadata
There is always one — and only one — transcript among gene transcripts that is designated as canonical. The transcript canonical metadata is an instance of `ValueSetMetadata`:


```json
{
  "canonical": {
    "accession_id": "canonical_transcript.true",
    "value": true,
    "label": "Ensembl canonical",
    "definition": "???",
    "description": "???"
  }
}
```

_To be determined:_ whether the transcript canonical metadata will also need to include an `evidence` field.

### TranscriptManeMetadata
Transcript MANE metadata is an instance of `ValueSetMetadata`.

```json
{
  "mane": {
    "accession_id": "mane.select",
    "value": "select",
    "label": "MANE Select",
    "definition": "Gene loci with at least one protein coding transcript.",
    "description": "???",
    "ncbi_transcript": {
      "id": "NM_001374244",
      "url": "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/protein/NM_001374244"
    }
  }
}
```

Notice that it has a custom `ncbi_transcript` field.

### TranscriptTSLMetadata
Transcript TSL metadata is an instance of `ValueSetMetadata`.

```json
{
  "tsl": {
    "accession_id": "tsl.one",
    "value": 1, // there is also a tslNA — would it be a null?
    "label": "TSL:1",
    "definition": "All splice junctions of the transcript are supported by at least one non-suspect mRNA.",
    "description": "???"
  }
}
```

### TranscriptApprisMetadata
Transcript APPRIS metadata is an instance of `ValueSetMetadata`.
 
```json
{
  "appris": {
    "accession_id": "appris.alternative-one",
    "value": "alternative1",
    "label": "APPRIS alternative:1",
    "definition": "Candidate transcript model that is conserved in at least three tested species.",
    "description": "???"
  }
}
 ```

===

## Prospective transcript metadata
Transcript metadata that is expected to be added in the future.

### TranscriptGencodePrimaryMetadata
Transcript gencode primary metadata is an instance of `ValueSetMetadata`:


```json
{
    "gencode_primary": {
      "accession_id": "gencode_primary.true",
      "value": true,
      "label": "GENCODE Primary",
      "definition": "Gene loci with at least one protein coding transcript.",
      "description": "???",
    },
}
```

_To be determined:_  whether the transcript gencode primary metadata will also include a `reasons` field containing reasons for inclusion of this transcript in the gencode primary category.

### TranscriptExonicOverlapSameStrandMetadata
Transcript APPRIS metadata is an instance of `ValueSetMetadata`. Note the presence of the additional `associated_features` field.

```json
{
  "exonic_overlap_same_strand": {
    "accession_id": "biotype_additional_attribute.exonic_overlap_same_strand",
    "value": "exonic_overlap_same_strand",
    "label": "Exonic overlap with another transcript (same strand)",
    "definition": "Exonic overlap (same strand) with another Ensembl/GENCODE transcript",
    "associated_features": [
      {
        "type": "Gene",
        "stable_id": "ENSG"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

===

## Other metadata

### OntologyTermMetadata
Ontology term metadata is common across different types of features and also exists on non-features, such as `Region`. It is an instance of `XrefMetadata`. An example would look as follows:

```json
{
  "accession_id": "SO:0000147",
  "value": "exon",
  "url": "www.sequenceontology.org/browser/current_release/term/SO:0000147",
  "source": {
    "name": "Sequence Ontology",
    "url": "www.sequenceontology.org",
    "description": "The Sequence Ontology..."
  }
}
```

Commit message:

Made fields on gene name metadata nullable
This was agreed in the Thoas prioritisation meeting on 05/10/2021 and is necessary due to data not being reliably available to populate all of the fields.

src/docs/feature_metadata.md, after:

# Feature metadata

A feature may have various kinds of metadata associated with it. These pieces of metadata are described by the `Metadata` data type.

## A metadata item

All metadata items will have the following fields in common:

| Field        | Type                        
|--------------|-----------------------------
| value        | string, number, or boolean 
| accession_id | string

`Metadata` items tend to fall into one of two categories: metadata derived from an external reference (XrefMetadata), and metadata derived from a value set (ValueSetMetadata).

An `XrefMetadata` item will have the following shape (cf. `ExternalReference`):

| Field          | Type        | Description |
|----------------|-------------|-------------|
| accession_id   | string      | item's identifier in an external database
| value          | string      | relevant information about the item
| url            | string      | url for accessing the item in another resource
| source         | ExternalDB  | see ExternalDB

A `ValueSetMetadata` item will have the following shape:

| Field          | Type                       | Description |
|----------------|----------------------------|-------------|
| accession_id   | string                     | item's identifier in a value sets glossary
| value          | string, number, or boolean | value intended for programmatic use by the consumer
| label          | string                     | a short, human-readable and display-friendly label
| definition     | string                     | succinct definition of the term
| description    | string or null             | optional longer description that can contain nuances

**Note**: apart from the fields listed in the table above, `ValueSetMetadata` items may also contain additional optional fields unique for each given kind of metadata. See `TranscriptManeMetadata` for an example.

Listed below are concrete realizations of different metadata items.

===

## Gene metadata

A `Gene` has the following metadata associated with it:

| Field          | Type                         |
|----------------|------------------------------|
| name           | GeneNameMetadata or null     |
| function       | GeneFunctionMetadata or null |
| biotype        | GeneBiotypeMetadata          |


### GeneNameMetadata
Gene name metadata is an instance of `XrefMetadata`. Due to issues with data availability, the fields in gene name metadata have to be nullable.

| Field          | Type                 | Description                                   |
|----------------|----------------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| accession_id   | string or null       | item's identifier in an external database     |
| value          | string or null       | relevant information about the item           |
| url            | string or null       | url for accessing the item in another resource|
| source         | ExternalDB or null   | see ExternalDB                                |


```json
{
  "name": {
    "accession_id": "...",
    "value": "...",
    "url": "...",
    "source": {
      "name": "...",
      "url": "...",
      "description": "..."
    }
  }
}
```

### GeneFunctionMetadata
Gene function metadata is an instance of `XrefMetadata`. The information about gene function is provided by Uniprot.

```json
{
  "function": {
    "accession_id": "...",
    "value": "...",
    "url": "...",
    "source": {
      "name" : "...",
      "url" : "...",
      "description" : "..."
    }
  }
}
```

### GeneBiotypeMetadata
Gene biotype metadata is an instance of `ValueSetMetadata`:

```json
{
  "biotype": {
    "accession_id": "biotype.gene_protein_coding",
    "value": "protein_coding",
    "label": "Protein coding",
    "definition": "Gene loci with at least one protein coding transcript.",
    "description": "???"
  }
}
```

===

## Transcript metadata

A `Transcript` has the following metadata associated with it:

| Field          | Type                                    | 
|----------------|-----------------------------------------|
| function       | TranscriptFunctionMetadata or null      |
| gencode_basic  | TranscriptGencodeBasicMetadata or null  |
| canonical      | TranscriptCanonicalMetadata             |
| mane           | TranscriptManeMetadata or null          |
| tsl            | TranscriptTSLMetadata                   |
| appris         | TranscriptApprisMetadata                |
| biotype        | TranscriptBiotypeMetadata               |

### TranscriptFunctionMetadata
Like gene function metadata, transcript function metadata is an instance of `XrefMetadata`. The information about gene function is provided by Uniprot.

```json
{
  "function": {
    "value": "...",
    "url": "...",
    "source": {
      "name" : "...",
      "url" : "...",
      "description" : "..."
    }
  }
}
```

### TranscriptBiotypeMetadata
Like gene biotype metadata, transcript biotype metadata is an instance of `ValueSetMetadata`. It will likely have a different definition from gene biotype metadata, necessitating a different accession_id.

```json
{
  "biotype": {
    "accession_id": "biotype.transcript_protein_coding",
    "value": "protein_coding",
    "label": "Protein coding",
    "definition": "An mRNA that can be translated into a protein.",
    "description": "???"
  }
}
```

### TranscriptGencodeBasicMetadata
Transcript gencode basic metadata is an instance of `ValueSetMetadata`:


```json
{
  "gencode_basic": {
    "accession_id": "gencode_basic.true",
    "value": true,
    "label": "GENCODE Basic",
    "definition": "Gene loci with at least one protein coding transcript.",
    "description": "???"
  }
}
```

Note: transcript gencode basic metadata is only applicable for human and mouse transcripts.

### TranscriptCanonicalMetadata
There is always one — and only one — transcript among gene transcripts that is designated as canonical. The transcript canonical metadata is an instance of `ValueSetMetadata`:


```json
{
  "canonical": {
    "accession_id": "canonical_transcript.true",
    "value": true,
    "label": "Ensembl canonical",
    "definition": "???",
    "description": "???"
  }
}
```

_To be determined:_ whether the transcript canonical metadata will also need to include an `evidence` field.

### TranscriptManeMetadata
Transcript MANE metadata is an instance of `ValueSetMetadata`.

```json
{
  "mane": {
    "accession_id": "mane.select",
    "value": "select",
    "label": "MANE Select",
    "definition": "Gene loci with at least one protein coding transcript.",
    "description": "???",
    "ncbi_transcript": {
      "id": "NM_001374244",
      "url": "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/protein/NM_001374244"
    }
  }
}
```

Notice that it has a custom `ncbi_transcript` field.

### TranscriptTSLMetadata
Transcript TSL metadata is an instance of `ValueSetMetadata`.

```json
{
  "tsl": {
    "accession_id": "tsl.one",
    "value": 1, // there is also a tslNA — would it be a null?
    "label": "TSL:1",
    "definition": "All splice junctions of the transcript are supported by at least one non-suspect mRNA.",
    "description": "???"
  }
}
```

### TranscriptApprisMetadata
Transcript APPRIS metadata is an instance of `ValueSetMetadata`.
 
```json
{
  "appris": {
    "accession_id": "appris.alternative-one",
    "value": "alternative1",
    "label": "APPRIS alternative:1",
    "definition": "Candidate transcript model that is conserved in at least three tested species.",
    "description": "???"
  }
}
 ```

===

## Prospective transcript metadata
Transcript metadata that is expected to be added in the future.

### TranscriptGencodePrimaryMetadata
Transcript gencode primary metadata is an instance of `ValueSetMetadata`:


```json
{
    "gencode_primary": {
      "accession_id": "gencode_primary.true",
      "value": true,
      "label": "GENCODE Primary",
      "definition": "Gene loci with at least one protein coding transcript.",
      "description": "???",
    },
}
```

_To be determined:_  whether the transcript gencode primary metadata will also include a `reasons` field containing reasons for inclusion of this transcript in the gencode primary category.

### TranscriptExonicOverlapSameStrandMetadata
Transcript APPRIS metadata is an instance of `ValueSetMetadata`. Note the presence of the additional `associated_features` field.

```json
{
  "exonic_overlap_same_strand": {
    "accession_id": "biotype_additional_attribute.exonic_overlap_same_strand",
    "value": "exonic_overlap_same_strand",
    "label": "Exonic overlap with another transcript (same strand)",
    "definition": "Exonic overlap (same strand) with another Ensembl/GENCODE transcript",
    "associated_features": [
      {
        "type": "Gene",
        "stable_id": "ENSG"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

===

## Other metadata

### OntologyTermMetadata
Ontology term metadata is common across different types of features and also exists on non-features, such as `Region`. It is an instance of `XrefMetadata`. An example would look as follows:

```json
{
  "accession_id": "SO:0000147",
  "value": "exon",
  "url": "www.sequenceontology.org/browser/current_release/term/SO:0000147",
  "source": {
    "name": "Sequence Ontology",
    "url": "www.sequenceontology.org",
    "description": "The Sequence Ontology..."
  }
}
```
